## idea

The paper "Priors in Time: Missing Inductive Biases for Language Model Interpretability" proposes a temporal SAE architecture that decomposes the representation for token into a predictable component and a new component. The predictable component is computed using an attention mechanism. Refer to `papers/priors_in_time.md` for the markdown version of the full paper. The original source code is at `src/TemporalFeatureAnalysis`. 

Their paper only uses real world models and datasets. This is good, but they do not perform any experiments on synthetic data. It would be good to see how their approach fares on a synthetic benchmark.

## steps for the first iteration

0. read the paper `papers/priors_in_time.md` in detail and understand its implementation in `src/TemporalFeatureAnalysis`

1. create code for generating a basic synthetic dataset based on Scheme C in `docs/han/research_plan/toy_model_idea.md`, where the following are adjustable: the number of features, the sequence length, and for each feature $i$ the value of $\alpha_i$ and $\beta_i$ as well as the initial state distribution. 

2. use the code from (1) to generate some data and check that the empirical values of temporal autocorrelation match the theoretical formulas. Make some visualizations of the data, e.g. a grid where each row is the activation for a feature, each column is a timestep, and a value's magnitude is its activation.

3. pick ONE good instance of this dataset as a proof of concept: 10 features with varying temporal correlation. train a small toy model
  * apply a basic SAE on the model. Measure reconstruction error for various choices of sparsity. make a plot of sparsity vs reconstruction error. 
  * apply TFA on the model. Measure reconstruction error for various choices of sparsity. make a plot of sparsity vs reconstruction error. 
Note: 
 - don't modify the existing code in `src/TemporalFeatureAnalysis`. You can use linux commands to copy existing files to somewhere else if you want.
 - this step should serve mainly as a sanity check that the code works as expected, before we move on to longer running tasks, and code should take < 30 mins to run.
 
4. sanity check the results from (3). 

5. report and discuss these preliminary findings in a new research log. 

